=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

cPanel::PublicAPI::WHM::CachedVersion - Allows for lookups of remote versions of cPanel & WHM.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module allows you to lookup the version of a remote instance of cPanel & WHM based off of the contents of /var/cpanel/accounting/cache, if the server is not stored there, it will perform the version call.

/var/cpanel must exist in order for this to work, /var/cpanel/accounting and /var/cpanel/accounting/cache will be created if necessary.

=head1 cached_version()

This module consists of a single function - cPanel::PublicAPI::WHM::CachedVersion::cached_version().  It expects an already configured publicapi instance.

Syntax:

  my $pubapi = cPanel::PublicAPI::WHM::CachedVersion->new( 'host' => 'somehost', 'user' => 'someuser', ... );
  my $version = $pubapi->cached_version();

This will return a string containing the version of the cpanel/whm server being queried.

=head1 Bugs

see http://rt.cpan.org to report and view bugs

=head1 License

Copyright (c) 2015, cPanel, Inc.
All rights reserved.
http://cpanel.net

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
     * Neither the name of cPanel, Inc. nor the
       names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
       derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL  BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
